---
toc: true
comments: false
layout: post
title: Titanic + ML Blog New
courses: { compsci: {week: 26} }
type: hacks
---

## Titanic Survival Predictor

The Titanic Survival Predictor is an interactive web-based application designed to estimate the survival probability of individuals aboard the Titanic, based on certain input parameters. It's built upon a machine learning model trained on the actual passenger data from the Titanic, considering factors such as class, sex, age, number of siblings/spouses aboard, number of parents/children aboard, ticket fare, whether the passenger was traveling alone, and the port of embarkation.

## Stock Market Cap Predictor

The Stock Market Cap Predictor is a web application that uses machine learning to forecast the market capitalization of stocks based on their last sale price and trading volume. Users input these two data points, and the tool, leveraging a RandomForestRegressor model, calculates and presents a predicted market cap value. This application integrates a user-friendly interface and a Flask-based API for real-time predictions, making sophisticated financial analysis accessible to both novice and seasoned investors. It aims to assist users in making more informed investment decisions by providing insights into potential stock valuations.

## Diamond Price Predictor

**carat:** The weight of the diamond. A higher carat value means the diamond is heavier, which typically increases the price since larger diamonds are rarer.

**cut:** The quality of the diamond's cut, a key factor in its brilliance, ranging from poor to excellent. A well-cut diamond reflects more light, appearing more brilliant.

**color:** A measure of how colorless the diamond is, grading from D (colorless and most valuable) to Z (light yellow, less desirable).

**clarity:** Indicates how clear the diamond is of imperfections, known as inclusions and blemishes, with grades ranging from Flawless (no inclusions visible under 10x magnification) to Included (inclusions visible to the naked eye).

**depth:** The height of a diamond, measured from the culet to the table, divided by its average girdle diameter. Depth percentage is a key factor in brilliance; too deep or too shallow diamonds can lose light and appear less brilliant.

**table:** The width of the diamond's top facet in relation to the widest point of the diamond, expressed as a percentage of the average diameter. Table size affects the diamond's fire, brilliance, and scintillation.

**x:** The length of the diamond in millimeters.

**y:** The width of the diamond in millimeters.

**z:** The depth of the diamond in millimeters.
